Feature blog for StatefulSet Autodelete beta graduation (#39819)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-03-06-statefulset-autodelete.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.27: StatefulSet PVC Auto-Deletion (beta)'
date: XXX
slug: kubernetes-1-27-statefulset-pvc-auto-deletion-beta
---

**Author:** Matthew Cary (Google)

> Kubernetes v1.27 graduates to beta a new policy for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.27 graduated to beta a new policy mechanism for
```

    from a previous replica is not usable and must be reconstructed anyway.

  * **`whenDeleted` is `Retain` and `whenScaled` is `Delete`.** This is similar to the previous case,
    when there is little benefit to keeping PVCs for fast reuse during scale-up. An example of a
    situation where you might use this is an Elasticsearch cluster. Typically you would scale that
    workload up and down to match demand, whilst ensuring a minimum number of replicas (for example:
    3). When scaling down, data is migrated away from removed replicas and there is no benefit to
    retaining those PVCs. However, it can be useful to bring the entire Elasticsearch cluster down
    temporarily for maintenance. If you need to take the Elasticsearch system offline, you can do
    this by temporarily deleting the StatefulSet, and then bringing the Elasticsearch cluster back
    by recreating the StatefulSet. The PVCs holding the Elasticsearch data will still exist and the
    new replicas will automatically use them.

Visit the
[documentation](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/#persistentvolumeclaim-policies) to
see all the details.

## What’s next?

> Try it out! The beta Enable the `StatefulSetAutoDeletePVC` feature gate is enabled by default on

Author: done

> cluster versions 1.27 and greater. Create a StatefulSet using the new policy, test it out and tell

Author: Oops good point done.

us what you think!

I'm very curious to see if this owner reference mechanism works well in practice. For example, I

> realized there is no mechanism in Kubernetes for knowing who set a reference, so it’s possible that

Reviewer: Server Side Apply, no?

Author: Hmm that's a good idea. I wish you had reviewed the KEP :-)

I'll have to try that out---even if current controller don't use it, using it here could clean things up.
